*By Balder W. Holst*

In the short stories "Just Like That" and "Indian Camp", the main
characters are boys, that both are on a journey towards manhood. They
both start out as innocent and unsuspecting, but in the end, they have
both grown more than, their mentor intended.

In "Indian camp", it is Nick who is on his way, to an Indian camp with
his father. Nick's father is a Doctor, and the two of them, and Nick's
uncle, are going to help a woman giving birth, in a nearby Indian camp.
Nicks dad probably thinks, that it will be a good maturing experience
for Nick, but as we know, Nick ends up with a whole other experience.
The relationship between father and son is a close one, we can tell from
the start of the of the story, where he and his dad cuddle up on their
way to the camp. When they get to the camp Nick's father tells him what
is going to happen, and Nick just says, "I see", which shows us that he
trusts his dad to make the right decisions. When Nicks father has
finished his operation, and the child Is born, he seems happy and
delighted that there had been no death, but that feeling does not last
long, for when he finds the father to the newborn, he has killed
himself, by cutting his throat. Nick is a bystander throughout the
story, and witnesses the whole situation unfold. He is of course shocked
by the contrast of life and death, but in his conversation with his dad,
he focuses on the suicide, which probably wasn't what his dad wanted to
get out of this trip. He also ends up with an absurd outlook on death,
thinking that, he will never die.

The boy in "Just Like That" actually wants to become a man. He and a man
(his mentor), have driven into the wilderness, in his pursuit of
manhood. The boy starts out being enthusiastic about the killing, he
sees it as a chance to become a man, or at least get closer towards
being a man. First, he watches as the real man shoots down a pack of
kangaroos. They walk to the dead animals, and upon arrival, the man
kicks them, and treats them with disrespect. This happens several times
in the story, and the boy feels more and more hatred towards the man
because of it. The boy eventually gets to shoot his first kangaroo, he
kills the first kangaroo, and realises in frustration, that nothing has
changed, he still has not become a man, though he feels that something
has died within him. It could be his childhood that died in that
instant, he is not innocent anymore, he just took a life. In contrast to
the man, that the boy aspires to be, the boy has empathy for the
kangaroos that they kill. This, some would say, makes him more of a man
than, the man in the story, but the boy does not see this. He looks up
to the man for his hunting skills, even though, as he previously
discovered, killing kangaroos does not make you a man. As the story
progresses he eventually begins to doubt the man, and maybe also his
manhood, while his empathy for the animals grows stronger. At the end of
the story he sets the lives of the kangaroos equal to the mans, which in
turn results in the boy shooting the man in the same manner that the man
shot the kangaroos; he simply says: "dead".

The two boys are both lead by men, who want them to grow up. These men
are looked up to by the boys, and they idolise them. They also trust
them to help them through their respective proceedings. Everything
starts off as planned. In Nicks case: he witnesses a successful birth,
while the boy watches the man shoot kangaroos, like a real man. But as
the boys outlook on death gradually changes throughout the story, it is
Nick who gets the broader understanding of both life and death; he sees
and hears the screams and pain of the mother giving birth, but at the
end it is all worth it, because a new life is born. Though this beauty
wears off when the father to the newborn is found, leaving Nick with the
general impression being about death. The boy on the other hand does not
have a positive instance like Nick, instead he just gets frustrated that
he does not become a man, his frustration later turns to the man, and
like Nick he ends up with a twisted relationship about killing and
death.
