[Exordium]{.ul}

Hello everyone. We are blessed to be here today and to bring you all the
words of God in this heated debate. But as we all know, there is no
right opinion there is only the truth: the undeniable truth of God's
word, and we have humbely been chosen to convey it.

[Narratio]{.ul}

The topic of today is abortion, and we are utterly disgusted, that this
is even a debate in this country of God. The lone fact that we are
discussing the legitImacy of God's word, brings sin and misfortune to
every citizen of America.

[Probatio]{.ul}

No embryo, no fetus, no future man or even woman, shall suffer this
cruel, inhumane fate. The holy bible has one thing to say about this and
it is perfectly summed up in this passage from Psalm 127: \*please
rise\* "Children are a heritage from the LORD, offspring a reward from
him" \*s√¶t dig ned!\* Even our lesser brothers of the East shall not be
treated with the despair an abortion. It is my mortal opinion that, if
you do chose the cowardly, escape of an abortion, you shall never get a
chance to lay your eyes upon the pearly gates and obtain salvation.

[Refutatio]{.ul}

Today's values are changing for the worse. Were are getting lured into
the fleshly desires of Satan furthermore there are many fundamental
flaws in our culture and society:

This modern notion, that the female sex is capable of making decisions
on their own behalf, is outrageous and brings sin upon all of humanity.
If we continue on this path, soon God's wrath will be upon us. \*please
rise\* As the holy bible says: "Then the Lord God said, 'It is not good
that the man should be alone; I will make him a helper fit for him.'" It
is not man's, and certainly not woman's decision to deny God one of his
innocent children.

This modern notion, that the made up, blasphemous, and unholy "science"
should prevail over the reality that is God is an utter disgrace. And
its basis that a world could function without a creator is clearly an
outrageous and flawed understanding of the world under the heavens. Mere
mortal emotion and convenience shall never oppose the greater plan of
the holy trinity.

This modern notion that the individual should make decisions, completely
defies the Lord and his word. Jesus died for us and how do we repay him?
We, sinners, kill the babies of our Lord and savior. What will this lead
to? Damnation from the creator? An afterlife of eternal suffering? The
world as we know it coming to an end?

[Peroratio]{.ul}

I am sure that our message is now apparent and undeniable to you
sensible people: all life is a gift from god, a gift that shall not be
refused. Imagine if baby Jesus was to be born in our era and was
condemned to death even before he saw the light of day. We shall not
oppose the greater plan of God, the will of God, faith itself.

God bless all of you.

Alle:

AMEN
