English translation of excerpt of Goebbel's Total War Speech 18 Feb
1943.

*Source:
<https://research.calvin.edu/german-propaganda-archive/goeb36.htm>*

*(19.03 2019)*

\[...\]

The question here is not one of method, but of the goal, namely
eliminating the danger. (Applause for several minutes) The question is
not whether the methods are good or bad, but whether they are
successful. The National Socialist government is ready to use every
means. We do not care if anyone objects \[...\]

To make the truth plain, however, my German comrades, I want to ask you
a series of questions. I want you to answer them to the best of your
knowledge, according to your conscience \[...\]

You, my hearers, at this moment represent the whole nation. I wish to
ask you ten questions that you will answer for the German people
throughout the world, but especially for our enemies, who are listening
to us on the radio. \[...\]

*Comment: (Only with difficulty can the minister be heard. The crowd is
at the peak of excitement. The individual questions are razor sharp.
Each individual feels as if he is being spoken to personally. With full
participation and enthusiasm, the crowd answers each question. The
Sportpalast rings with a single shout of agreement.)*

The English maintain that the German people has lost faith in victory.

I ask you: Do you believe with the Führer and us in the final total
victory of the German people?

I ask you: Are you resolved to follow the Führer through thick and thin
to victory, and are you willing to accept the heaviest personal burdens?

Second, The English say that the German people are tired of fighting.

I ask you: Are you ready to follow the Führer as the phalanx of the
homeland, standing behind the fighting army and to wage war with wild
determination through all the turns of fate until victory is ours?

Third: The English maintain that the German people have no desire any
longer to accept the government's growing demands for war work.

I ask you: Are you and the German people willing to work, if the Führer
orders, 10, 12 and if necessary 14 hours a day and to give everything
for victory?

Fourth: The English maintain that the German people is resisting the
government's total war measures. It does not want total war, but
capitulation! (Shouts: Never! Never! Never!)

I ask you: Do you want total war? If necessary, do you want a war more
total and radical than anything that we can even imagine today?

Fifth: The English maintain that the German people have lost faith in
the Führer.

I ask you: Is your confidence in the Führer greater, more faithful and
more unshakable than ever

before? Are you absolutely and completely ready to follow him wherever
he goes and do all that is necessary to bring the war to a victorious
end? (The crowd rises as one man. It displays unprecedented enthusiasm.
Thousands of voices join in shouting: "Führer command, we follow!" A
wave of shouts of Heil flows through the hall. As if by command, the
flags and standards are raised as the highest expression of the sacred
moment in which the crowd honors the Führer.)

Sixth, I ask you: Are you ready from now on to give your full strength
to provide the Eastern Front with the men and munitions it needs to give
Bolshevism the death blow?

Seventh, I ask you: Do you take a holy oath to the front that the
homeland stands firm behind them, and that you will give them everything
they need to win the victory?

Eighth, I ask you: Do you, especially you women, want the government to
do all it can to encourage German women to put their full strength at
work to support the war effort, and to release men for the front
whenever possible, thereby helping the men at the front?

Ninth, I ask you: Do you approve, if necessary, the most radical
measures against a small group of shirkers and black marketers who
pretend there is peace in the middle of war and use the need of the
nation for their own selfish purposes? Do you agree that those who harm
the war effort should lose their heads?

Tenth and lastly, I ask you: Do you agree that above all in war,
according to the National Socialist Party platform, the same rights and
duties should apply to all, that the homeland should bear the heavy
burdens of the war together, and that the burdens should be shared
equally between high and low and rich and poor?

I have asked; you have given me your answers. You are part of the
people, and your answers are those of the German people \[...\]

Now, people rise up and let the storm break loose!
