The speech "When technology can read our minds, how will we protect our
privacy?" is about the right to private thought. The speaker is a
self-proclaimed bioethicist, lawyer, philosophist and Iranian American,
who is worried about the rapid development of thought reading technology
and the implications it might have on society. In her speech she
highlights her concerns about how this technology could be used to harm
free thought.

The intent of the speech is to warn people around the world that there
is a coming fight for their freedom of thought. This is the claim of her
main argument. She tries to add grounds to this argument by precenting
scenarios where the private thoughts of an individual would have led to
severe consequences for them, had they been known by the wrong people.

She begins her speech with one of these scenarios: She talks about the
time she called her family in Iran whilst an ongoing protest was being
violently suppressed. Her family was too scared of the government
listening in on their conversation to talk about the current state of
the protest; they were being censored. She then asks the question: "what
if their thoughts had been monitored by the government?". And this is
the main point of her speech: we cannot afford to let governments or
corporations have free access to our consciousness, because it gives
others the power to control our thoughts by enforcing what ideas are
allowed and what ideas you go to prison for thinking about. She uses
complicated language to convey this message (increasing ethos), but the
talking speed is so slow that almost everyone has time to digest her
ideas. The denotative meaning of the speech simply informs of the coming
technology and its implications, but connotatively she is placing fear
and angst for the future in the listener. This works to heighten the
feeling of distain for the future she is precenting, this makes her
speech very persuasive. However, she heavily relies on pathos to make
her points.

The only statistic she cites is a study she did, in which she asked a
group of people to rate how highly they value different types of
privacy. She does not go into the specifics of how the study was carried
out, like the exact questions she had asked the participants (your
questions need to be specific if you are asking people about strange
scenarios such as privacy of thought), but the data is not her point, it
is that people are incredibly willing to surrender themselves to brain
transparency, which is also the grounds of her argument. This is not so
much an appeal to logos as it is to pathos; she uses a tiny unexplained
piece of data, to instill a much larger sense of worry in the audience.
It is an incredibly persuasive (and unethical) way of relaying the
findings of a study. The problem is that the method could be flawed. It
could for example be that she used a question such as: "How highly do
you value the privacy of your thoughts and ideas?". This question fails
to give context to why it is being asked. Any person of the street would
definitely value this less than their CPR number, because it is assumed
that the question is asking, if the people around them are allowed to
know about their preferences and political views, in the traditional
sense, for which the only way of communicating them is through speech.
This disconnect between the question asked and the question perceived
could have led to the wrong conclusion, which could invalidate her whole
point, that the public is ignorant towards the risk of future brain
transparency. For this whole persuasive strategy to work, you have to
first build a large enough ethos, for people to believe that you have
done your job correctly.

Her sentence structure and pacing is slow with many pauses throughout.
She also uses rhetorical questions to draw the audience in. A display of
public speaking skill increases her ethos as it makes us believe that
she knows what she is talking about, and maybe we will overlook the lack
of reliable grounds, which undermines her entire argument, as the
warrant is that, if we do not value our privacy of thought, we will end
up controlled by the people in power. If it then turns out that we do in
fact value the right to our thoughts, in the way only complete
mindreading could take away from us, the argument disappears. Because
the whole problem that she is trying to warn us about and her claim that
there is an upcoming battle for our minds, will be false.

This is a speech about an apocalyptic scenario where we are striped of
our right to free thought, however the grounds that the speaker presents
for worrying about this is shaky at best. She uses pathos to convince us
of the inevitability this apocalypse, much like a religion would. She
uses only the most minimal amount of data that we cannot be sure of how
it was attained and analyzed. However bad this future would be, she
fails at providing grounds leading the conclusion that our privacy of
thought is at jeopardy.
