Presenting...

The fantastic analytic power of Balder

Analysis of My Girl In Skin Tight Jeans

"Point of view" is one of the most powerful tools an author has at their
disposal. They are able build up a story that can instantly be altered
by the introduction of another angle, this is more commonly known as a
plot twist, which has a dramatic effect on the reader, as all the
information that before was nonsense, now suddenly makes sense and
builds on the events that have already occurred. In "My Girl in Skin
Tight Jeans" we see this use of "point of view" in action.

The story is told by the main character who does a lot to make himself,
and his very uneventful life, seem interesting. An example of this could
be when he tells us about his enormous passion for reading and then
proceeds to say that he finds magazines more "imaginative" than many
novels, and therefore only reads the magazines, although not the
political ones. He then tells us how he spent his winter last year and
how he stayed at a resort, which is our setting throughout the story,
where the other guests are "not very sociable folk". He also says that
due to one of his "projects" failing, his budget has been greatly
reduced. All of this reinforces the self-delusion of our narrator and is
a common theme throughout the story.

One day a girl arrives at the resort and the narrator is instantly
obsessed with her. He spends a lot of time describing her, and even
seems to know what she is like since he makes statements as: "I had come
to know her, got to grips with what I believe is a rare, remarkable
personality", even though he later admits to never having talked to her.
He calls her "*My Girl in Skin Tight Jeans*" or just "*my girl*" for the
rest of the story. This obsession puts the narrator in a bad light, as
he is clearly being a creep.

Later at dusk, he goes down to a small supermarket and while he shops,
he sees that *his girl* is looking in the direction of the ocean and
assumes that she is going to the beach. Just after, he notices the three
men once again, they are also going towards the beach and presumably
*his girl*. He gets enraged and begins to feel sick, then takes his gun
and goes down to the beach to protect *his girl* who has nothing to do
with him. When he arrives, he shows the men his gun and asks them where
*his girl* is. They say that they do not know what he is talking about,
but that does not fool our narrator, who shoots at one of them and takes
off a chunk of his thigh. The two other men run off, in shock over the
fact that they just got assaulted without having done anything wrong,
while he picks put a piece of driftwood and smashes the man's skull,
till he dies. Thereafter the narrator shouts out into the night after
*the girl*, to no success. This is a giant hint to the plot-twist at the
end.

The next day he wakes up and knows that *his girl* is gone and will
never come back. He watches as a man covers up *his girl* with an ad for
a drink that he instantly falls in love with. We now know *the girl* was
advertisement all along and that the narrator is living in a false
reality.

And so, it ends with a classic plot-twist. We have had hints throughout
the story that he is delusional, but now we know why he never found the
girl at the beach. This also brings an extra sadness to the killing,
that we now know had no point.

The story is written in an informative style where details of the
surroundings are left out to make the story progress faster and still
have time to tell us how the main character feels. Instead the focus is
on the main character's thoughts, and not the actual events. This means
that we get to know the narrator a lot better, than if it had been
otherwise.

The narrator's point of view is actually the only point of view that we
experience in the story, this is called a first-person narrator, and it
gives us insight into why he does things, that would seem drastic to an
outside viewer. It also means that we only get to know the other
characters though the narrator's viewpoint, resulting in a twisted
version of all other characters.

The story contains quite a few characters, but the only round character
is the narrator and even he presents himself pretty flatly. It is only
when you read between the lines that we see some conflict in his
character, as can be seen very clearly in the first part of the story
where he describes his situation.

The form of the text is quite simple with a short introduction of out
main character, thereafter we move into the setting and the plot begins.
The text uses strong language to convey the narrator anger, but mostly
sticks to an educational and informative tone.

The theme of the story is point of view and it is greatly influenced by
our narrator's delusion and egocentric behaviour. To an outsider it
would seem weird to go down to a beach and kill an innocent man, but
from the narrator's standpoint it is justified. And if we look at the
man's side of the story, then it seems like a very cruel ending to an
innocent man's life.

Everything the main character does, he does because of the girl he calls
"*My Girl In Skin Tight Jeans*", so the title is fitting, but it then
surprises us when we find out that *the girl* is fake.
