**Summary:**

Dinara Akhmatova is an employee at an American tech company. Lately the
company has been firing employees. Dinara was lucky enough to stay, but
other employees hate her for it. They calumniate behind her back to
slander her, even though they really do not know anything about her. One
day as she is sits at her desk, someone screams: "hawk" and the entire
office rushes to the window. She cautiously approaches the window, as
she assumes that it is some kind of programming term. To her surprise,
it IS a hawk! A golden hawk! She is mesmerized by the bird and stands
there looking at it even when everyone else has gone back to work. As
she later goes home she sees the bird again, this time in its nest. She
is not going to tell anyone about the hawks' secret place.

**Essay:**

The short story "Goldhawk" by Katherine Magyarody, is mostly set at an
American tech company. Dinara works there to feed her children back home
and mostly keeps to herself. It is not all her own fault as the rest of
the employees also do not like her. They tell each other that the only
reason she has not been fired, is because it looks good on the diversity
checks, to have a woman working in IT. Dinara feels very alone, she
feels like and outcast. Dinara is also an immigrant which also acts as a
barrier between her and the other workers.

Another place the story takes place is in her hours of commute every
day. Here we get to know about her affection for nature and treats it as
a reward in itself. This hints that she in reality wants to be somewhere
else, and that her job is just there to feed her children. When Dinara
sees the hawk, it activates that wonder for nature in her, and it
mesmerises her. She also sees something in the bird that others do not.
It too is a one of a kind, just like her. The others are quick to assume
that It is going to crash into the window they are standing at, like all
the other birds, they see have seen do it. However, Dinara just responds
with: ""*She will not," Dinara said. "She is... too smart."*" (line 89),
again she identifies with the bird and points out the ignorance of the
others, at least in her eyes.

From Dinara's point of view, she is a little pearl in a vast ocean of
muddy stones. She can see the strange nature of a job and thinks:
"*there was something insane about a room of people who spent their days
staring at small boxes. About people who spent their days in silence
punctuated by the tap of plastic keys.*" (line 61 -- 63). She is the
only one to se it, everyone else is just blindly following the company's
guidelines. She is the only one there with real purpose, but maybe she
too is a little ignorant here, because people usually are not one
dimensional, just like Diana, the other may be hiding, or just not
showing, their real self maybe out of fear or curtesy.

The main theme is discrimination and dimensions of character. Everyone
looks one dimensional the first time you see them, but we all have
complex lives, and an uncountable amount of reason to do what we do,
even when it may be wrong. Dinara is different, and that is really all
the other employees know about her but being different is still enough
to ridicule someone for because to them, she is just a one-dimensional
person, that works at the same place as them. This is the purest form of
discrimination; She is the odd one out and therefore they talk badly
about her. She takes the criticism to heart, at least partly as she also
does not talk to them. And at the end of the story where she finds the
hawk nest. She finally has something the others may want, so as a show
of power to herself that it not going to tell the others about is. She
is so desperate for a little piece of power in the office that this
seems to make her happy.

"Goldhawk" is a story about discrimination and dimensions of character.
It shows us what discrimination actually looks like in the real world,
and clearly unveils the toxicity it brings. This is a lesson for
everyone that discrimination, only leads to the worsening of a team.
