Engelsk B delprøve 1, grammatik, for 1. g efter grundforløb.

Navn og klasse: **Balder 1.v**

Opgave 1

Hvilke ord er **tællelige** og hvilke er **utællelige** i den betydning
de har i teksten?

He had enjoyed [life]{.ul} on the [beach]{.ul}, and now he was on his
way to his [witch]{.ul} to enjoy [nature]{.ul} with her. Suddenly he met
an old witch. She was ever so ugly. Her [eyes]{.ul} were swollen, her
[hair]{.ul} rumpled, and her [voice]{.ul} hoarse. "What a fine
[jug]{.ul}, and what a big [rucksack]{.ul} you've got," she said. "And
you are a [beauty]{.ul}. Now I want you to give me as much [juice]{.ul}
as I care to have, or I shall turn you into a [stone.]{.ul}" No sooner
said than done -- and they turned each other into stones. Great
[minds]{.ul} think alike.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Opgave 2

Lyt til Leonardo DiCaprios tale i vedhæftede link. Find 10 substantiver,
10 verber, 10 adjektiver, 10 adverbier og 10 pronominer. Stil dem op i
en liste.

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F47RIF_0reA>

Substantiver: action, years, country, issue, slavery, will, words,
crisis, time, climate-change.

Verber: thinking, said, are, must, save, speaking, knew, ring, have, is.

Adjektiver: bold, quiet, new, changing, unprecedented, ancient, direct,
inadequate, faster, massive.

Adverbier: today, very, here, now, late, often, apparently, back,
simply, how.

Pronominer: he, his, that, whose, its, this, us, each, our, they

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Opgave 3

Indsæt korrekt tid -- præteritum (datid) eller perfektum (førnutid) af
verberne (udsagnsordene) i parentes:

At 5.00 p.m. my neighbour rang (ring) up and said (say), "Is Mary with
you?" Mary, her daughter, spent (spend) most of her time in our yard
playing with our

afraid I have not seen (not see) her today," I said (say). "But our
children went (go) to the beach this morning and have not come (not
come) back yet. Perhaps she went (go) with them."

When I bought (buy) my new house I asked (ask) for a telephone. The
Telephone Company told (tell) me to wait, but I have waited (wait) a
year now and my phone still has not come (not come).

"Have You found (find) out yet about the trains to Aalborg?" "No. I rang
(ring) the station last night but the man who answered (answer) the
phone did not seem (not seem) to be sure of the times. He said (say)
something about a new timetable." "But the new timetable has been (be)
in operation for three weeks!"

Opgave 4

ADVERBIER (BIORD)

Find og marker adverbierne (biordene) i følgende sætninger, og bemærk om
de siger noget om tid, sted, måde, grad eller andet

Then suddenly a cousin died and left Nancy all her money. Now she and
Arthur need wait no longer to get married. But Arthur behaved strangely.

He had never spoken directly of his love to her and now he seemed to
have less desire than ever to do so. In the village everybody was
gossiping about her and she was, indeed, wondering what to do when a
second astonishing thing happened to her.

Opgave 5

Ret fejlen og forklar: (Kun én fejl i hver sætning). Skriv den rettede
fejl med kursivskrift under hver sætning.

1.  She has chosen to write it because she wants to give her side of the
    story. (Choose er et uregelmæssigt verbum)

2.  Did you really think we would tell on you? ("did" angiver datid, så
    "think" skal stå i infinitiv)

3.  Timothy has fallen in love with Susan, who is ten years younger than
    he is. ("is" bliver ændret til "has", så hele sætningen står i før
    nutid)

4.  She no longer organizes things, and her clothes and other belongings
    are scattered around the house. (ændret til nutid)

5.  You are forgiven for having forgotten my birthday (uregelmæssigt)

6.  Russell describes the things that have happened to him (man kan ikke
    sige "they has happened" - altså [flertal]{.ul})

7.  There isn't enough money here to pay the bill (money er I ental)

8.  He didn't have the strength to do it (det skal stå I infinitiv)

9.  Everyone in the story except Ian rejects Michael (I 3. Person er der
    "s" på)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
10. . There are only a few supporting characters in the story. (flertal)

Opgave 6

Write a text (50 -75 words) to match the photo and include all the words
from the list below.

~~people~~ -- ~~police~~ -- ~~shorts~~ -- ~~information~~ --
~~knowledge~~ -- ~~news~~ - ~~money~~

The following news report may contain harsh information.

"We have new knowledge regarding the crocodile story lined up for you
tonight folks. The situation is escalating. The man in shorts, who has
been battling a crocodile for almost an hour, is now getting desperate.
Hundreds of people have gathered around the lake and watch in terror as
the locals try rescuing the man. The police are offering a good sum of
money if the rescuers succeed."
