Carlyle is a gas station owner in a small town in North Carolina. One
day a soiled woman shows up after closing time. At first Carlyle does
not let her in and begins sweeping the store. When the woman does not
leave, he asks her what she wants. She tells him that she was thrown out
of the car and has no one who can come pick her up. He lets her in.
After cleaning herself up and resting for a while, as she softly sings
along to the radio. Carlyle offers to pay for a bus ticket for her to
get back to home and they drive to the bus station where he pays for her
ride home with a few bucks to spare. We flash forward two years. Carlyle
hears a familiar voice in the radio. It is the woman who now has a
successful music carrier.

The short story "Last Bridge Burned" by Ron Rash is set in a small town
called Asheville in North Carolina. The main character, Carlyle owns a
gas station in the little town. Here nothing ever changes, everything is
repeating itself every day. Even the cat comes to check if Carlyle has
left a can of fish for it in a daily basis.

The title "Last Bridge Burned" emphasises the absolute hopelessness of
the woman. She has absolutely nothing, and no one is there for her
anymore. At least, that is what she believes but just by presenting
herself, she finds someone willing to help. She is startled by this,
which we can see in line 22 -- 24:

"What do you expect in return?"

"Nothing."

"Nothing?"

She is so used to people wanting something in return that she expects
that of everyone. Perhaps that is why she was kicked out of the car; she
did not give them what they wanted in return for being her friend or
maybe just for driving her home. Carlyle's simple act of kindness sends
her spiralling upwards and onwards in life. Which certainly is not why
Carlyle does it.

When the woman shows up, she disturbs Carlyle's cycle and only
reluctantly, he lets her in. Carlyle is a man of order and structure;
therefore, he does not like to be disrupted in his routine. He does his
best to live by his father's advice: "trouble finds a man easy enough
without you inviting it in" (line 6-7), and every time in his life that
he has ignored it, as in getting married, his life has become worse. He
would much rather just live by himself in peace without the trouble that
comes with having people in your life. Therefore, he finds the situation
unsettling and desperately tries to conserve his usual habits, but this
woman needs help, and it would be just as disruptive to his daily
schedule, if he had to think about whether he should have been better to
her, as it would be to let her stay with him, so he ends up helping her
get home. It costs him sixty dollars, a pair of flipflops and a cup of
coffee, but that is a small price to pay to be contempt with life.

And this is the main theme of the short story: success and life
satisfaction. Carlyle is perfectly happy with is current position in
life, with no one there to cause him trouble. He is contempt with living
the same day over and over again in a rural town, which name says
everything you have to know about it: "Asheville", as if someone set
fire to it, and what now exists are only the sad remains. Still Carlyle
finds joy in life as he watches the cars pass on the highway at night.
The woman on the other hand, has hit rock bottom. She is without shoes
and standing on a stranger's doorstep in need of help. She is desperate
and does not think that anyone would be kind enough to help her. Just as
Carlyle, she does not expect anything good from the world, but much like
him, she still ends up successful in her own way.

"Last Bridge Burned" is a short story about success and life
satisfaction, it tells the story of two very different people, who both
end up happy and successful in their own right, but in very different
ways. It also shows us the impact a small deed, like helping someone in
need, can have on their life and that in reality, the last bridge is
never burnt.
