Engelsk B delprøve 1, grammatik, for 1. g efter grundforløb.

Navn og klasse: **Balder 1.v**

Opgave 1

Hvilke ord er **tællelige** og hvilke er **utællelige** i den betydning
de har i teksten?

He had enjoyed [life]{.ul} on the [beach]{.ul}, and now he was on his
way to his [witch]{.ul} to enjoy [nature]{.ul} with her. Suddenly he met
an old witch. She was ever so ugly. Her [eyes]{.ul} were swollen, her
[hair]{.ul} rumpled, and her [voice]{.ul} hoarse. "What a fine
[jug]{.ul}, and what a big [rucksack]{.ul} you've got," she said. "And
you are a [beauty]{.ul}. Now I want you to give me as much [juice]{.ul}
as I care to have, or I shall turn you into a [stone.]{.ul}" No sooner
said than done -- and they turned each other into stones. Great
[minds]{.ul} think alike.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Opgave 2

Lyt til Leonardo DiCaprios tale i vedhæftede link. Find 10 substantiver,
10 verber, 10 adjektiver, 10 adverbier og 10 pronominer. Stil dem op i
en liste.

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F47RIF_0reA>

Substantiver: action, years, country, issue, slavery, will, words,
crisis, time, climate-change.

Verber: thinking, said, are, must, save, speaking, knew, ring, have, is.

Adjektiver: bold, quiet, new, changing, unprecedented, ancient, direct,
inadequate, faster, massive.

Adverbier: today, very, here, now, late, often, apparently, back,
simply, how.

Pronominer: he, his, that, whose, its, this, us, each, our, they

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Opgave 3

Indsæt korrekt tid -- præteritum (datid) eller perfektum (førnutid) af
verberne (udsagnsordene) i parentes:

At 5.00 p.m. my neighbour rang (ring) up and said (say), "Is Mary with
you?" Mary, her daughter, spent (spend) most of her time in our yard
playing with our

afraid I have not seen (not see) her today," I said (say). "But our
children went (go) to the beach this morning and have not come (not
come) back yet. Perhaps she went (go) with them."

When I bought (buy) my new house I asked (ask) for a telephone. The
Telephone Company told (tell) me to wait, but I have waited (wait) a
year now and my phone still has not come (not come).

"Have You found (find) out yet about the trains to Aalborg?" "No. I rang
(ring) the station last night but the man who answered (answer) the
phone did not seem (not seem) to be sure of the times. He said (say)
something about a new timetable." "But the new timetable has been (be)
in operation for three weeks!"

Opgave 4

ADVERBIER (BIORD)

Find og marker adverbierne (biordene) i følgende sætninger, og bemærk om
de siger noget om tid, sted, måde, grad eller andet

Then suddenly a cousin died and left Nancy all her money. Now she and
Arthur need wait no longer to get married. But Arthur behaved strangely.

He had never spoken directly of his love to her and now he seemed to
have less desire than ever to do so. In the village everybody was
gossiping about her and she was, indeed, wondering what to do when a
second astonishing thing happened to her.

Opgave 5

Ret fejlen og forklar: (Kun én fejl i hver sætning). Skriv den rettede
fejl med kursivskrift under hver sætning.

1.  She has chosen to write it because she wants to give her side of the
    story. (Choose er et uregelmæssigt verbum)

2.  Did you really think we would tell on you? (hovedverbet "did"
    angiver datid, så "think" skal stå i infinitiv)

3.  Timothy has fallen in love with Susan, who is ten years younger than
    he is. ("is" bliver ændret til "has", så hele sætningen står i før
    nutid. Før nutid bliver dannet af verbet "has" på engelsk)

4.  She no longer organizes things, and her clothes and other belongings
    are scattered around the house. (ændret til nutid, kongruens)

5.  You are forgiven for having forgotten my birthday (uregelmæssigt)

6.  Russell describes the things that have happened to him (man kan ikke
    sige "they has happened" - altså [flertal - Verbalkongruens]{.ul})

7.  There isn't enough money here to pay the bill (money er utælleligt
    derfor ental)

8.  He didn't have the strength to do it (det skal stå I infinitiv)

9.  Everyone in the story except Ian rejects Michael (I 3. Person er der
    "s" på)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
10. . There are only a few supporting characters in the story. (flertal)

Opgave 6

Write a text (50 -75 words) to match the photo and include all the words
from the list below.

~~people~~ -- ~~police~~ -- ~~shorts~~ -- ~~information~~ --
~~knowledge~~ -- ~~news~~ - ~~money~~

The following news report may contain harsh information.

"We have new knowledge regarding the crocodile story lined up for you
tonight folks. The situation is escalating. The man in shorts, who has
been battling a crocodile for almost an hour, is now getting desperate.
Hundreds of people have gathered around the lake and watch in terror as
the locals try rescuing the man. The police are offering a good sum of
money if the rescuers succeed."

Presenting...

The fantastic analytic power of Balder

Analysis of My Girl In Skin Tight Jeans

"Point of view" is one of the most powerful tools an author has at their
disposal. They are able build up a story that can instantly be altered
by the introduction of another angle, this is more commonly known as a
plot twist, which has a dramatic effect on the reader, as all the
information that before was nonsense, now suddenly makes sense and
builds on the events that have already occurred. In "My Girl in Skin
Tight Jeans" we see this use of "point of view" in action.

The story is told by the main character who does a lot to make himself,
and his very uneventful life, seem interesting. An example of this could
be when he tells us about his enormous passion for reading and then
proceeds to say that he finds magazines more "imaginative" than many
novels, and therefore only reads the magazines, although not the
political ones. He then tells us how he spent his winter last year and
how he stayed at a resort where the other guests are "not very sociable
folk". He also says that due to one of his "projects" failing, his
budget has been greatly reduced. All of this reinforces the
self-delusion of our narrator and is a common theme throughout the
story.

One day a girl arrives at the resort and the narrator is instantly
obsessed with her. He spends a lot of time describing her, and even
seems to know what she is like since he makes statements as: "I had come
to know her, got to grips with what I believe is a rare, remarkable
personality", even though he later admits to never having talked to her.
He calls her "*My Girl in Skin Tight Jeans*" or just "*my girl*" for the
rest of the story. This obsession puts the narrator in a bad light, as
he is clearly being a creep.

Next our main character is sitting in one of the two restaurants that he
graces with his presence. Here he watches the following scene play out.
A car stops and tree guys step out. The narrator notices a girl, and so
does the guys. They begin harassing her and our narrator grows furious,
but before he can do anything, they drive off and all he can do is curse
to himself. He is so attached to this girl, who he does not know, that
he has a physical reaction.

Later at dusk, he goes down to a small supermarket and while he shops,
he sees that *his girl* is looking in the direction of the ocean and
assumes that she is going to the beach. Just after, he notices the three
men once again, they are also going towards the beach and presumably
*his girl*. Again, he gets enraged. He begins to feel sick, then takes
his gun and goes down to the beach to protect *his girl* who has nothing
to do with him. When he arrives, he shows the men his gun and asks them
where *his girl* is. They say that they do not know what he is talking
about, but that does not fool our narrator, who shoots at one of them
and takes off a chunk of his thigh. The two other men run off, in shock
over the fact that they just got assaulted without having done anything
wrong, while he picks put a piece of driftwood and smashes the man's
skull, till he dies. Thereafter the narrator shouts out into the night
after *the girl*, to no success. This is a giant hint to the plot-twist
at the end.

The next day he wakes up and knows that *his girl* is gone and will
never come back. He watches as a man covers up *his girl* with an ad for
a drink that he instantly falls in love with. We now know *the girl* was
advertisement all along and that the narrator is living in a false
reality.

And so, it ends with a classic plot-twist. We have had hints throughout
the story that he is delusional, but now we know why he never found the
girl at the beach. This also brings an extra sadness to the killing,
that we now know had no point.

The story is written in an informative style, where details of the
surroundings are left out to make the story progress faster and still
have time to tell us how the main character feels. Instead the focus is
on the main character's thoughts, and not the actual events. This means
that we get to know the narrator a lot better, than if it had been
otherwise. The narrator's point of view is actually the only point of
view that we experience in the story, and it gives us insight into why
he does the things, that would seem drastic to an outside viewer.

The theme of the story is point of view and it is greatly influenced by
our narrator's delusion and egocentric behaviour. To an outsider it
would seem weird to go down to a beach and kill an innocent man, but
from the narrator's standpoint it is justified. And if we look at the
man's side of the story, then it seems like a very cruel ending to an
innocent man's life.

Everything the main character does, he does because of the girl he calls
"*My Girl In Skin Tight Jeans*", so the title is fitting, but it then
surprises us when we find out that *the girl* is fake.
