Link til opgave:
[http://it.soroeakademi.dk/net-opgaver/engelsk_b/180237_STX_Engelsk_B\_vejledende_opgavesaet_2\_2018/#](http://it.soroeakademi.dk/net-opgaver/engelsk_b/180237_STX_Engelsk_B_vejledende_opgavesaet_2_2018/)

# Assignment 1

*Find alle verberne (udsagnsordene) i præteritum (datid) i nedenstående
tekst, og omskriv dem til præsens (nutid). Skriv hele teksten som dit
svar, og marker verberne tydeligt som i eksemplet.*

They **are** quiet going to the car, calmly elegant like the old lady.
Edgar **notices** with some horror that Emma promptly **opens** the
front door and **sits** down. Auntie Hadley just **stands** there,
flaming. Edgar **freezes**, with gloom and awkwardness. She **knocks**
his hand away when he **tries** to help her in. They **ride** a piece in
hard silence until Emma **instructs** him as to where she **lives**,
sounding drunk. It **is** way out south of town on a tarry country road,
Edgar **finds** out slowly. When he finally **gets** there and
**drives** into the "park" it **becomes** clear she **lives** in a long
redwood mobile home in a group of pines. There **is** a man sitting
barefoot on wooden steps at the front door.

# Assignment 2

1.  I teksten er tre verballed (udsagnsled) understreget (1-3). Skriv,
    hvad der er subjekt (marked in yellow) (grundled) for hvert
    verballed.

2.  I teksten er tre substantiver (navneord) understreget (4-6). Skriv
    dem i singularis (ental) og pluralis (flertal). Forklar kort,
    hvordan de tre substantiver danner pluralis.

3.  Find og skriv eksempler på tre forskellige relativpronominer
    (henførende stedord) i sidste afsnit (linjerne 5-9)

-   Who

-   Whom

-   Which

Strike now found himself presented with a stark choice. Telling her the
truth about what he had been up to [would]{.ul} (1) necessitate an
admission that he had not kept her abreast of any of the recent events
that would have been deemed enough news for a decade in most people's
[lives]{.ul} (4) (singularis: life, pluralis: lives, stærk bøjning). He
would be forced to reveal that the girl in the newspapers who had
survived the Ripper's latest attack [was]{.ul} (2) his own business
partner. He would have to tell her that he had been warned off the case
by a [man]{.ul} (5) (singularis: man, pluralis: men, det er stærkt
bøjet) whom he had previously humiliated over another high-profile
[murder]{.ul} (6) (singularis: murder, pluralis: murders, regelmæssigt
bøjet verbum). If he were making a clean breast of all that he had been
up to, he ought also to add that he now knew exactly who the killer was.
The prospect of relating all this [bored]{.ul} (3) and oppressed him. He
had not once thought to call her while any of these events had unfolded,
which was revealing enough in itself.

# Assignment 3

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Semantisk felt: pollution of the sea**
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Global Issue

  Trash islands

  Micro-plasts

  Fish

  Ecosystem

  Environment
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

# Assignment 4

*der var et billede her engang*
height="4.813194444444444in"}After the controversial legalization of
marijuana, the local teenagers have rapidly taken to the streets under
its influence. Traffic has slowed almost completely to a halt as the
streets are filled with dancing kids. "The newly opened weed-stores are
the only ones profiting from this catastrophe" the president says with a
hint of guilt in her voice.

*der var et billede her engang*

"Farang Are So Easy to Come And leave" by Mai Nardone, is a short story
taking place in Bangkok during an economic crisis. The dad is American
and the mother Thai. Because of the increasingly terrible job
opportunities in Bangkok, the father temporarily goes to America to work
and sustain the rest of the family. After her father leaves, Lara begins
to see that life would be better elsewhere and when she gets to visit
her dad over the break, she tells everyone that she is going and that
she will not be coming back. When she comes to America, her dad seems to
have made plans for her to go to college there. She does not object to
this and when her mother calls and wants to talk to her husband, Lara
lies and tells her that he does not want to speak to her, further
underlining that she does not want to come back.

The story is set in Bangkok during an economic crisis where the value of
the local currency is dwindling. Therefore, people are getting
desperate. We learn of someone in Lara's class whose farther shot
himself in a car before the debt collectors could take it away from him.
Thailand is not a nice place to live at this point in time. The main
character also sees this and starts skipping classes to sit and read the
newspaper, where they announce the latest debt suicides. Her father
worked in finance before the crisis and can see where this whole thing
is heading. Therefore, he takes the appropriate measures to support his
family. He hates seeing his family suffer and not doing something, that
is why he starts working on the house now that he is unemployed (line 19
- 22). From his utterances we can also conclude that he does not like to
live in Bangkok. The family does not function all that well. Lara has a
role as interpreter for whenever her mom does not want to speak to her
husband directly. This also makes Lara a part of the conflict, which is
not a healthy position for a child. The relationship between the parents
is an interesting one: The mother is by her Thai heritage obligated to
stay at home to cook and look after the child. For her to work would be
an insult to her in the context of her culture, and this is more
important than anything else. Even the stability of the family, which
confuses Lara, who puts the family's wellbeing above all else. When Lara
comes with the simple solution to the family's financial problems, that
she could work as well, her mother just says: "Don't talk to me like
that" (line 99). Lara's father husband respects her position and takes
is upon himself to support his family, which again upsets Lara, she
tells him: "She's doing this to you. Making you want to go". But her
father does not have a problem leaving. He really wants to go back to
his American lifestyle, so when he has the opportunity, he makes a case
for him to go to America, to his wife. She agrees because it means that
she can uphold her Thai dignity. Now Lara has to choose sides. Deep
inside she wants to get away, but she has to finish school. Lara wants
to go to America with her father, but is afraid of what her mother would
say, so she ends up not saying anything. Lara's mom thinks that America
is just an opportunity for the family to get back on track, even though
for the two others it is a desire. Though Lara wants to live in America,
she is split between cultures. If she goes to America, she is not a real
Thai, but if she stays, she misses out on a better life. She chooses the
ladder, when she tells everyone in her school that she is "leaving
leaving" (line 134). She is not planning on using the return ticket.
When she arrives at her father's new apartment, she says: "This looks
permanent", and her dad confirms her suspicions. He is not going back
either, but his reason is that she will soon need to live there anyways
when she attends college. She is angry at him for leaving like any other
"Farang", but she does not say anything, because he is doing it for her,
and she too wants to stay. When her mother finally calls and wants to
talk to her husband, Lara lies because she does not want to give her
mother false hope of the father returning to Thailand. This is a story
about culture clash, and of how children of culturally mixed parents are
often caught up in a choice between their parents. In this story the
cultures end up dividing the family in two countries. They will probably
never be united again. The sad truth is that cultures like the western
and the Thai are so different, that everyone has to give up too many of
their values to make it work. This makes unstable relationships, that
are easily torn down by small problems. Cultures just do not mix like we
sometimes want them to.
