A lot of people live in cities. Although sometimes these vast crowds of
people tend make everyone feel anonymous and superficial. Therefore,
there is deep a need for people to connect with each other and that is
where the local diners come into play. These are places where you can
sit down and enjoy a good meal, meanwhile stumbling into some locals.

George Blecher is an American writer, journalist and translator, who for
the past 25 years has spent a large portion of his life in diners. In
the article "More Than Coffee: New York's Vanishing Diner Culture", he
describes how diners have changed over the time he has been
frequenting\* them. He begins the article by listing a series of diners,
that have closed in the recent years. He then goes on to say that these
diners are an essential part of a city, where locals form a community,
they would not have otherwise. In the second half of the article, he
describes the various diners that he has visited on a regular basis and
highlights their atmosphere with concrete examples.

This is an article written by George Blecher, someone who derives a deep
nostalgia and sense of belonging from diners, as he has long history of
eating and meeting local people there. Therefore, he is sad to see them
closing all around him to make room for new high-rise buildings. He
worries that closing these diners will bring loneliness to New York with
the line: "How will New Yorkers get along without these antidotes to
urban loneliness?". To Blecher, diners are at the very core of what
builds a welcoming community for the locals. Beyond this, he also writes
that these places should be preserved on the basis that, they are a
"treasure trove of local history", which adds to their value.

This article never precents a clear argument, but it is definitely
written with the intent that reader should have drawn certain
conclusions when they finish reading it. The invisible claim is this: it
is bad that diners are dying as they have immense value for the city and
its citizens. This is why he keeps on writing about how great these
places are; he is providing grounds to the idea that these diners have
value, trying to convince us that them going away is a bad thing. And
what grounds does he end up providing? Throughout the article, he
romanticizes the idea of diners and precents them as being culturally,
historically and socially important for the city. This is very clearly
laid out, however, there might be another reason he wants to keep the
diners going: nostalgia. Nostalgia is a strong motivator to keep things
as they are or try to go back to how they were. We can see how deep this
nostalgia runs by looking at the composition of the article. It starts
of with him telling everyone that he has a long history going to diners.
He then goes on to tell the reader about the closing of all these
places. After this, he spends the majority of the article thinking back
on the old diners that have closed as he recites his journey from one
diner to another as they closed down. It seems like Blecher looks back
on these times as "the good old days" and can only think of them fondly.
He ends the article by sharing that one of his old friends died in a
diner and adding this comment: "I think he would have appreciated his
heart's choice of where to expire". This is perhaps the highest praise
you could ever give a place, again highlighting his one-sided view of
diners. This one-sidedness is very common in nostalgia as we often
idealise the past and forget about its failures. Nostalgia could
therefore be a significant driving force behind the way this situation
is put forth the article.

The article is written formally, with well thought out language such as:
"Among diners, the Metro is quietly sophisticated". He also uses a
plethora of direct quotes, making it seem like he has done a thorough
job researching or just has an abundance of experience to draw from.
Either way it works to give the reader the feeling that he knows what he
is talking about, and that he is quite passionate about is as well.

New York's diners are disappearing. This is a bad thing according to
George Blecher as he cites all the ways that these restaurants bring
value to the city. Although he might be driven by nostalgia, he does
provide sound grounds that back this up, but that is not enough to stop
the current evolution in the city. It is a sad story, but these diners
may in the future just be a little pocket of local culture, long gone by
the time anyone realises what we have lost.
