**Farvekode:**

Familieinteraktioner

Skoledrama

Konflikt

In '97 we bought back our old townhouse on the outskirts of Bangkok. We
came down from the condominium Ma had framed in her mind as the
high-water mark of our family's achievements. The townhouse had a plot
of earth in the back that Dad used to call a garden, and it had once
charmed Ma to pot plants, indulge the mud patch. When we returned after
the economy collapsed, Ma had the washer dragged out back so that the
house felt bigger. The occupying family had divided up our home, and I
went cautiously into the new territory. "The Thai-Chinese are all like
this," Dad said expertly. "They make walls. They like to live in little
boxes." Ma, part Chinese herself, allowed him this transgression.
\[...\] My British international school was a luxury we maintained. I
was fourteen and in love with a boy who had ears like cymbals. It was
all I could do not to clap my hands on either side of his face and kiss
him. His name was Tom Bell. Tom called me Laura, like a wholly white
girl, when actually it's Lara. I never corrected him. "Hullo, Laura,"
he'd say, and I'd nod mutely because we all knew what I thought of his
attention. We all knew too much about one another: who had touched whom
in the music rooms last week, what the note slipped into Shruti Singh's
locker said (curry cunt), and why Charlie Ong walked around with both
hands in his front pockets. We knew that Bow Wattanakorn's father shot
himself in his Mercedes before the debt collectors could take it away.
On her last day at school, we signed Bow's white polo: See you soon, Sad
to see you go, and, from one idiot boy, Get well! Dad worked the living
room wall while I watched television. After he had complained about the
Thai chatter, a poor accompaniment to his rhythm, I muted my soap opera.
As an American, my dad could only fall so far in this Southeast Asian
collapse, but he was unsuited for unemployment. He measured his worth in
working hours. "We were meant to live by our hands," he said. "Right,
like hand-to-mouth?" He laughed. "A person should know their way around
a toolbox. Come the apocalypse, blue-collar workers will inherit the
earth." Dad had worked in finance. I said, "This is Thailand. 99 percent
working class. We'll be fine." "They teach you too much at school." He
swung the hammer like a golf club at a stray piece of plaster. "You
know, no one warns you that your kids are less fun when they grow up."
Two months with only this hammer to handle had added to his bulk. But
his were an old man's muscles, his shoulders like worn tires. "There's
gray dust in your hair," I said. Ma came in to check the disorder. To
oppose Dad's newfound broadness, she had adopted the mannerisms of a
bird of prey, hunched, stalking Dad's efforts, her censure biting into
him like a hooked beak. "Dad says it's the end of the world," I told
her. "Yes," she said, surely recalling the Bangkok Post's cover image
from last week, the baht's value falling into the graph's underworld.
"Don't be stupid," Dad said to me. Then, to Ma, "How's my KitKat?" Ma
hadn't responded to that in months. She looked over his work, and then
at me. "It's a mess," she said in Thai. "It's a mess," I echoed, in
English, for Dad. Ma nodded, satisfied with this transaction, and left
the room. Dad laid down the hammer and surveyed his wall. "Why do I feel
like you girls are teaming up against me?" \[...\] I skipped the next
English class to follow Dad downtown, my motorbike taxi in the wake of
his car as it navigated to a construction site. Posters along the
perimeter promised Bangkok another level of luxury. Diamond Heights,
they called the condominium. Two buildings. Swimming pools for everyone.
They had erected the honeycomb cores of the twin condos, thirty stories
of concrete, but there were no windows and no outer walls. I slinked
easily after Dad through an opening in the gate. I had started to wonder
about his disappearances. He had lived in Thailand so long that it
seemed reasonable for him to yield to its mores, that practice of
keeping another household. "Minor wife" was the Thai title for those
women, as if it were a privilege. But Dad went to a vacant home. He saw
me coming through the fence and smiled, maybe to hide his surprise.
"Going up?" He held back the gate of a construction elevator. "Please,"
I said. "All the way up." He took us to a penthouse where we sat with
our legs over the edge. The view was of the twin building. Graffiti was
the only embellishment, and inky swamps had formed in what had been
intended to be private, balcony pools. "Your mother and I are thinking
about what to do next. If it continues to be this bad, I might go back
to the US for a while, to work there until things smooth over on this
side. A temporary move." Temporary move? Ma had said weeks ago when we
left our condo. Only you farang are so easy to come and leave. I swung
my feet. "Why can't we all go?" "Your mother doesn't want to move."
"Well she can stay here on her own," I said. \[...\] I could tell Ma had
made an effort with dinner. The pasta, angel hair, was coiled
elaborately, dressing up its simple tomato sauce. "I really like this. I
do," Dad said, and made sure Ma looked at him. "Tomato," Ma nodded.
"Pomodoro, pomodori," Dad sing-songed, happy. Ma asked, "Where you come
from?" and Dad **[lied]{.ul}** blithely: "I met an old contact at an
office development company." Ma asked if this was Khun Pin's company,
and I translated for Dad. "Oh, no. Just an old acquaintance," Dad said,
responding to my translation but looking at Ma. Ma cleared away dinner
and Dad unfolded his newspaper. On the cover was an image of Thai
policemen ransacking a foreign bank's offices. "It's hard being a
foreigner in a recession. The Thais blame us for their mess," Dad said.
He then set a box wrapped in signature red-and-white twine on the table.
"For my girls." He smiled like a boy. Ma said to me, "What is this
supposed to mean?" I didn't speak. "Ask him," she said. "Ask him
yourself." We knew the box, the string, the cloying scent. It was the
bakery at the base of our old condominium. A charming, Parisian place
that reminded the residents of how far above the rest of the city they
could consider themselves. Ma had loved it. Ma turned on Dad. "No job
but you waste money. Soon no house?" She pointed at me, jabbing with
each phrase. "No school. No future. No good. What I want cake for?" What
had he thought? He raised two empty hands. "I thought we all might like
to share something nice for a change. It's been bleak lately. How about
we cut it up and then decide?" "Decide what?" I asked. Ma said, "You
eat. I clean up. Only in slum they don't have maids." "Why don't you get
a job, Ma?" I asked in English. "You want to live big so bad, you go and
make it happen. Do it yourself." "Don't talk to me that way." I nodded
towards Dad. "Speak in English so that we can all understand. Go on,
tell him." "Lara," Dad said. "We've been talking. We think it might be
best for me to move back to America. Back home." There was work, he
could send money, and we could afford my last years of school. I said in
English, "She's doing this to you. Making you want to go." Even then he
defended her. "No, she isn't. You should try to understand. Your mother
didn't marry up to play a maid." "We need you here more than we need
money. Other jobs will come," I said. "When things pick up again, I'll
come back." I said to Ma, "You're sending him away." "Your father has to
understand. He has to be responsible. Tell him that." "Tell him," Ma
repeated, but I didn't speak. In the month before he left, I let the
house divide us. It was easy to use the walls. I staked out territory
and avoided common spaces. The family room stood empty. Ma left me food
on the kitchen counter. Dad existed in a periphery, the sounds of his
living always a layer removed, a room away. His only presence was in the
traces he left: shaving cream in the sink, his sock buried in the sofa,
the bread crusts he never ate in the trash. These were the things I
would want to piece together after he left. I needed some semblance of
his order, the way my life had come to orbit his. He left the walls
unfinished. \[...\] Bangkok that year became a graveyard of office
towers and housing projects. I had taken to skipping classes. I sat in
the hollows of buildings and read about the debt suicides. Some of those
fathers were jumpers. In other homes across the city fathers were being
dragged to jail. Others were running away to their second lives, those
minor wives and backup families. It was a father conspiracy. They all
had a plan B. You could trace their exploits if you wanted to; in their
wake they left home-shaped shells and invoices totaling their
obligations. I eventually returned to Diamond Heights and found it
inhabited by displaced families. They had easily appropriated,
portioned, and adopted the space as a home. They had plumbed the showers
with hoses taped to blue piping scaffolds. They strung up clotheslines
and hung patterned fabric to separate the households, but in a wind,
those walls fluttered and lifted. When my next school break approached,
Dad bought me a flight to go see him. We couldn't afford two tickets, so
Ma would stay on at home. On the last day of English class, I told Tom
Bell I was leaving for the US. I needed something to work right then,
and I could start with his attention. "What? What're you on about? Like
a holiday?" "I'm leaving. I'm flying tomorrow. America. To go live with
my dad." "You're leaving leaving?" "That's right." I fished out a
marker. "Will you write something on my shirt?" "Well, sure. Didn't
realize you were off as well. How does 'I'll miss sharing stuff in
English. Goodbye and good luck' sound?" I nodded and angled my chin up
so he could lean in to sign my front. "And it's Lara, Tom. You'll
remember me? Lara." "What do you think?" Dad walked me through the
two-bedroom house he was renting, a house built to hold heat through
winter. He had a dishwashing machine.

"This looks permanent," I said. "Funny you should say that." "What's
funny?" He had lost weight since resuming deskwork. I pictured Dad
bigger, less than a year younger but at the height of his health, it
seemed, marching through the house with his chest too broad for his
shirt, earning his keep with bare hands. "You're not coming back, are
you?" "You'll be out here soon, for college." I waited for him to invite
me to stay in the States so I could tell him what I thought of him: just
another foreigner passing through, a white man with minor wives, an
imperialist, a cultural bigot -- what else? What had the papers said of
them -- foreigners -- in recent months? Dad didn't ask me to stay.
"College," he said again. "You'll be out here soon?" "And Ma?" He ran
his palm along a pristine dining table. "She wants to be in Bangkok,
doesn't she?" Ma called that night and I answered the phone. I told her
I was coming home, and Dad wasn't. She asked to speak to him. "He
doesn't want to talk to you," I lied, in Thai so that she understood. "I
want to speak with my husband." I switched to English, "I told you, he
doesn't want to talk to you." The line was bad. Or she was crying, I
don't know. Something couldn't contain her voice. She tried English:
"Please."
