## During class in groups: write your group\'s answers in elev feedback.

**1. Do the translation on page 86**

Alice Munro is what you would call "The Author of the Authors". She is
one of the most read authors in her homeland, Canada, but she has not
gained a wide readership abroad. Yet, she is being acknowledged by other
authors all over the world as one of the best storytellers of our time -
our "Tjekhov" as she is been called-and in 2013 she received the nobel
prize in literature. Munro primarily writes short story collections,
which might be the reason why she is yet to become an international
bestselling author. Her focus is always on people, and with big
generosity and a lightning-sharp look she depicts their fates with such
insight and joy of storytelling that "she talks to you and me, right
here and right now", as the American author Jonatan Franzen has
described her stories.

**2. p. 93: Look up the word \"gravel\" and discuss why you think it is
the title of the story.**

Gravel = Grus (gravel er oftest grovere end grus)

To gravel = gruse, dække med grus, irritere, ærgre

The narrator's sister dies in a gravel pit. (The gravel can be
interpreted as the narrator\'s incoherent thoughts and bad memory. To
gravel can also mean to cover up something, which is what the counsellor
tries to do at the end, since he tries to convince the narrator, he (the
narrator) could not have done anything).

**3. Write a summary of the story \"gravel\" that is exactly 110 words.
(Remember: present tense / only necessary information / no quotes.**

The short story "Gravel" (2011) by Alice Munro is about a kid, who lives
in a rural area by a gravel pit. He lives with his mother, his mother's
boyfriend Neal and his sister Caro. The adults are alternative and not
the most typical parent figures. The kid spends most of the story
reminiscing about old times. He does not remember a lot of things from
back then his mom and dad were together. In general he finds some things
hard to remember, which could be one of the causes that his sister
drowns in the nearby gravel pit, since it is unclear how fast he manages
to get help.

**4. Characterize the five characters in the short story. Write down
notes enabling you to remember them.**

**Neal:** Secondary character, He is a strange man. He dropped out of
college (p. 89 l. 11) and became the solid ghost (p. 89 l. 19). He
knocks up the mother of the main character (p. 88 l. 27) and then has to
live with them as a stepfather. His philosophy is to welcome whatever
happens (p. 89 ll. 6-7). He says a lot of bad words (p. 90 l. 12) and is
not well educated.

**Caro:** Secondary character, Caro is a 9-year-old girl (p. 92, l. 13).
She is a pupil and goes to the school in town (p. 89, l. 24-25). She has
curls and reddish hair (p. 91, l. 15). When she died, she was dressed in
a light-brown checked coat and a plaid scarf (p. 91, l. 14).

Caro is a spirited child with strong opinions. When she watches TV with
the narrator, Caro makes comments that spoil the show (p. 90, l. 16-17).
She also contradicts her mother, telling her that the gravel pit is not
that deep around the edges (p. 90, l. 9).

**The narrator:** The narrator is a boy (we actually do not know if it
is a boy or a girl) and at the moment of the narration, a couple of
years have gone by. We can conclude this because he sees a counsellor
(p. 92, l. 2) and his memories of the event at the gravel pit aren't
very sharp (p. 92, l. 31), but his thoughts about the events are now
many and does not seem as if there were lots of them, when needed. In
his childhood story, he is younger than 9 and of an age to attend
kindergarten (p. 89, l. 30).

**The mother:** Secondary character, The mother is described as
"good-looking and young enough to be mistaken for an actress" (p. 88,
ll. 9-10). She organized fund-raisings for the theater and volunteered
as an usher (p. 88, ll. 8-9).

She used to wear makeup, but then she started working at the theater and
went for a more artistic look (p. 88, ll. 11-12). When she leaves the
house, she leaves her former belongings behind too: high heeled shoes
(p. 88, l. 38), silk nightdresses, a diamond ring, and her wedding ring
(p. 89, ll. 1-2).

Once she starts volunteering at the theater, she adopts a more
liberating style, letting her hair wild (p. 88, l. 11) and dressing with
"shawls and long skirts and dangling necklaces" (p. 88, ll. 10-11).

**The father:** Secondary character, insurance agent. He cries when he
finds out his girlfriend/wife is pregnant with another man, so he does
not want to lose her. It seems like he likes her very much, since he
tried to compliment the things she works with (p-88, ll. 14-20)

**5. Discuss the point of view. Comment on who the narrator is speaking
to (see page 92 line 6?**

The story is narrated in the past tense by an unnamed first-person
narrator. The dialogue, however, is in the present tense.

The narrator is the younger sibling of the story. Caro's younger
sibling.

**5. Discuss who the twisted mind is in this short story, and why. How
can we see that Alice Munro has depicted \"people\'s destinies\"? (cf.
the text piece you translated in question one)**

The twisted mind lies on the main character. He does not help his sister
when she falls into the gravel pit. And he is divided in his memories of
the accident. The psychologist tries to find a meaning with his
reaction, but he just agrees to her interpretation of the accident. The
story is a bit confusing because the narrator is making some big and
confusing leaps in the composition.

**6. What are the themes in the story?**

Responsibility, childhood trauma, drowning, twisted mind, childhood
memories.
