Feat. Alle de noter jeg burde have taget gennem året:)

# 6. Arranged Marriages in India

**Prompt**

Focus is on female and male roles in society, cultural differences
between people from India and the Western world - Identity: Immigrant
youths navigating within an original cultural context and a new culture.
- cultural clashes / Expectations in connection with marriage in India.

## Night of the Full Moon

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Characters**                      
  ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  Malan                               Main character and mother og Minnie

  Minnie                              Daughter og Malan. Has an upcoming
                                      wedding

  Pearl Dealer                        Malan's secret (soon to be) lover

  "father"                            Malan's husband who is never home
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

[Conflict 1:]{.ul} Malan doesn't love her husband but is bound to him by
tradition. She also receives letters to her secret love interest the
pearl dealer.

[Conflict 2:]{.ul} Malan was seen with the pearl dealer, and everyone
thinks it was Minnie out whoring. Because of this she cannot get married
and commits suicide by jumping in the well.

**Quotes**

l\. 21-22: "Fair and fragile, she looked as is the touch of a human hand
would leave a stain on her" (about Malan's daughter Minnie)

## Now Boys put their foot down, Refuse to Marry too Young

The text is a short article.

-   **Salim** asked for his [wedding to be cancelled]{.ul}, to pursue
    education instead.

-   His family obeyed.

-   Even faced with the **[threat]{.ul}** that he [cannot get a
    bride]{.ul} from the community in the future, he went through with
    it.

-   It is a [new]{.ul} thing for children to refuse their [arranged
    marriages]{.ul} in India.

## A Bride's Ire over Dowry Brings Fame and proposals

The text is a short article.

-   Ms. Sharma was supposed to get married, but her grooms family was
    not satisfied with the **[dowry]{.ul}** that her family had paid.

-   The wedding broke into chaos as the police and journalists came.

-   She is not [questioning the dowry system]{.ul}: "are you marrying
    with money, or are you marrying with me?"

## *(Un)arranged Marriage* by Bali Rai

Manny lives in Leicester and is forced into an arranged marriage. The
family goes to India and tricks Manny into staying there. The outcast of
his family helps him home, where he runs away right before his wedding.

## Indian Matchmaking

Documentary about a woman who has made a business of matching young
Indians for marriage.

# 7. Mind your Body (Body Image)

**Prompt**

Skønhedsidealer. Mediernes rolle. Spiseforstyrrelser.

## Photos

![A group of women posing for a picture Description automatically
generated with medium
*der var et billede her engang*
height="3.6246937882764656in"}

## *When your mother says she's Fat* by Kasey Edwards

**Resumé**

A daughter tells her mother how she shaped the way the for the rest of
her life, saw being fat. She learned that if you were fat, you were also
ugly and horrible. You are also lazy because you cannot lose weight. She
does not blame her mother for her views, but society for conditioning
her to think the way she does and passing it on to her daughter.

[Primary problem]{.ul}: Self-loathing

**Quotes**

l\. 1: "I was seven when I discovered that you were fat, ugly and
horrible. Up until that point I had believed that you were beautiful -
in every sense of the word"

l\. 24-25: "When did fat become a feeling anyway? And because I believed
I was fat, I knew I was no good"

l\. 30-32: "Now I understand what it's like to grow up in a society that
tells women that their beauty matters most, and at the same time defines
a standard of beauty that is perpetually out of reach.

## Lady Oracle

The main character is a child who wants to dance. Unbounded to her, she
is not like the others, she is fat and her mother has given up on her
long ago.

[Focus of the story:]{.ul} the discrimination you face being fat, even
as a child.

**Quote**

l\. 23-24 "when I reached the age of six, the pictures stopped abruptly.
This must have been when my mother gave up on me..."

# 8. Working with Genres

**Prompt**

Der arbejdes med forskellige genre typer med særlig vægt på politiske
taler og i den forbindelse også det politiske valg i USA i 2020/21.
Derfor er der også en del tekster / videoer fra valget på forskellige
tidspunkter i løbet af året.

## *The Use of Force* by William Carlos Williams

This is a short story that makes us question the obligation and power
dynamics of doctors/professionals.

What were the doctor's motivations really?

**Resume**

A doctor visits a house to check on a child. The child does not want to
be examined in the throat, which is needed to determine if she has
diphtheria (an apparently lethal disease). He ends up having to wrestle
her mouth open, to get a clear view, ending op cutting her tung. At last
she has the disease, and is defeated.

[Note:]{.ul} the whole incident is described very graphically.

**Quote**

P. 22, l. 14-15 "She did not move and seemed, inwardly, quiet; an
unusually attractive little thing" (what the fuck is he saying about a
child!!!???)

P. 25, l. 15-17 "I could have torn the child apart in my own fury and
enjoyed it. It was a pleasure to attack her. My face was burning with
it."

P. 25, l. 23-25 "In a final unreasoning assault I overpowered the
child's neck and jaws. I forced the heavy silver spoon back of her teeth
and down her throat till she gagged."

## Poem in Which by Wayne Holloway-Smith

Dette er et digt om forholdet mellem mor og søn.

**Analyses**

She always leaves

A bacon sandwich on the kitchen table,

A message scribbled in ketchup beneath its upper rung of bread.

The sandwich is a message of love, from his mother.

In which I swallow whole the note and never know it's there.

This message is easily overlooked by a son

I spell I'm sorry with sodden clothes, with smiling too long and flower
stems,

On my mistakes, as they are happening all of them.

He makes mistakes all the time, and can never bring himself to say
sorry. There are too many.

Poem in which my mother is maddened, not disappointed.

He imagines a poem/time where his mother would not be disappointed in
him, but mad at her own disappointed parents

Poem in which all my mothers are maddened: the old ladies

He imagines all the times that his mother was mad at her parents as
separate people. Now they are all old ladies.

Smoking at the bus stop, scanning bacon and bread loaved at Tesco,

All of them, are pretty and called Margret.

They are all his mother, but with slightly different experiences/at
different ages

In which the rain spells their name on me

He is now standing in the place in life that his mothers has been, but
with their experiences [inculcated]{.ul} (indpodet) in him through his
upbringing

And dry patches of escarpment

It rubs off in his surroundings.

## Inaugural Address by President Barack Obama

The speech begins with pathos as he recites the founding principles of
America. He then goes on to logos as he addresses his issues. Again at
the end, he [pivots]{.ul} back to pathos as he closes the speech with a
[call to unity.]{.ul}

**Points**

\- [Declaration of Independence]{.ul} (basic rights)

\- Equality of opportunity

\- Cost of health care

\- Stand together

\- Climate change and sustainability

\- Ending perpetual war \-\--\> strong alliances

\- Gay Rights

\- The Oath

\- Unity

[Anaphora:]{.ul} "We, the people..."

**Quotes**

P. 49, l. 18-19 "Now, more than ever, we must do these things together,
as one nation and one people."

P. 51, l. 10-11 "America will remain the anchor of strong alliances in
every corner of the globe."

P. 52, l. 10-12 "We cannot mistake absolutism for principle, or
substitute spectacle for politics, or treat name-calling as reasoned
debate. We must act, knowing that our work will be imperfect."

P. 52, l. 17-19 "My fellow Americans, the oath I have sworn before you
today, like the one I recited by others who serve the Capitol, was an
oath to God and country, not party or faction."

## Inaugural Address by President Donald Trump

**Analyses**

This speech mainly uses pathos to gain ethos. The ethos it what gives
his arguments their weight. When he says: "Together, we will determine
the course of America and the world for many, many years to come. We
will face challenges, we will confront hardships, but we will get the
job done." It is a very vague statement that people want to believe, and
therefore do. If you first agree with one statement a person has said,
you are far more likely to believe the second at face value, without
needing the exact detail of how the plan is to be carried out.

**Points**

\- Share Washington's Wealth with the whole country

\- Poverty

\- Crime and Gangs

\- Increasing military spending

\- fighting Islam with the 'civilised' world

**Quotes**

P. 57, l. 7-8 "Together, we will determine the course of America and the
world for many, many years to come. We will face challenges, we will
confront hardships, but we will get the job done."

P. 58, l. 36 "This American carnage stops right here and right now."
\[about poverty entrapment, crime/gangs and an expensive and ineffective
school system\]

P. 59, l. 5 "for many decades, we've enriched foreign industry at the
American industry; subsidized the armies of other countries, while
allowing for the very sad depletion of our military."

P. 59, l. 33 "America will start winning again, winning like never
before."

P. 60, l. 6 "We will follow two simple rules; buy American and hire
American."

# 9. Twisted Minds

**Prompt**

Temaet beskæftiger sig med begrebet Twisted. Hvordan er de forskellige
teksttyper twisted?

## *Blood* by Zdravka Evttimova


**Analyses**

This is a short story about the cost of giving and the effects of false
hope. The blood of a mole is this false hope, and it is given at the
cost of our main character. He does this because he has a need to help,
an almost selfish need, that only truthfully benefits his own [self
validation]{.ul}; when he helps her, he has purpose. The lady also
benefits from the false hope, at least she thinks the does, and comes to
thank him after. This only further reinforces that the deed was good to
the main character. Word of his powers soon reach the rest of the town,
and at first, he reluctantly accepts again. However, when there is an
entire crowd the next day, he realises that if he gives anymore, he will
end up bleeding out from giving, more precisely: giving the promise of
false hope.

**Twisted aspects**

The request for "the blood of a mole".

The selfishness of giving false hope.

The peoples desire for this false hope

## *How to Set a House on Fire* by James M. Reasoner

This text is written almost as an instruction manual.

**Twisted parts**

The casual way of explaining how to burn down what has been a family
house for generations.

Either the man is strange, or the circumstances have pushed him so far,
that this seemed like a logical progression of events.

## *Graveyard Shift* by James M. Reasoner

This story is about the effects of grief and how it can change a
person's outlook on the world.

**Twisted parts**

He kills the man and apparently, he has been killing thieves for years.

He does it because a thief killed his wife.

## *Gravel* by Alice Monroe (for alt I verden... ik perspektiver til denne her)



## *How My Brother Tried to Kill Me in an "Honor Attack"* by Anna Coren

This is an article about a 17-year-old girl. She ran away from her
abusive 60yr old husband. On her escape, her brother tracked her, and
her friend down. He cut them both down with an axe. Her friend died, but
she survived miraculously. She now lives at an Afghan shelter where they
care for her, even though it is hard for her to escape the feeling of
shame.

**Twisted parts:**

Arranged marriage to a 60yr old at the age of 12.

Her BROTHER's assault on her.

She still feels shame.
