In Denmark we need strict gun laws to ensure that we keep guns away from
the average citizen. The big problem occurs, when everyone has access to
guns; it means that if you get in a confrontation with anyone, you are
sure that they have a gun, and to protect yourself you will need one
yourself. This creates an even stronger need for guns, thus beginning an
evil spiral. We need to do everything we can, to keep this from
happening in Denmark.

America is different from other countries, in that it was founded with
the idea that the people should be able to over though the government,
if it should stop acting as the people intended, this is stated in the
2. Amendment. Therefore, a lot of Americans defend the right to
privately own guns. This means, that a sizeable portion of the public
would be against stricter laws on guns. If the government then banned
guns anyways, it would most likely result in a giant black market. And
all the law-abiding people would be without protection, if someone for
example broke into their house. Furthermore, the the law-abiding citizen
could be sure that the intruder had a gun, because of the sheer number
of them still in circulation, which would make the powerless.

The big problem is not the guns, but the people who end up carrying
them. The number of guns does not have a direct impact on gun violence,
but the more guns there are, the more likely it is that someone with bad
intentions has access to one. My solution is better background checks to
decrease the number of "bad" people with guns. This is not a perfect
solution, people can change after getting hold of a gun, but it is the
best we can do if we still want to have the public on our side.
