[Alt hvad der er højre stillet, er ting i ikke behøver at sige, men bare
læse]{.ul}

Jeg har highlightet dele af talen efter hvilke appelformer der bliver
brugt.

Nedenfor er en nøgle for hvad farverne betyder

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ethos       | pathos      | logos       | Multiple    | Comment     |
|             |             |             | Appeals     |             |
|             |             |             |             | (on the     |
|             |             |             |             | right)      |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
|             |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Jeg har også skrevet kommentarer til højre som nok er godt at sige

Læs op inden for klammerne

**{**

**Context:**

On March 10, 1922, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was arrested on charges of
sedition by British officials in Bombay (now Mumbai), India. He was
sentenced to six years in prison for his involvement in protesting the
British colonial government in India.

This next part is from the actual trial:

\[The charges having been read out, the Judge called upon the accused to
plead to the charges. The judge asked Gandhiji whether he pleaded guilty
or claimed to be tried.\]

[Gandhiji]{.ul} said : "I plead guilty to all the charges. I observe
that the King's name has been omitted from the charge, and it has been
properly omitted."

\[the judge wanted to make a verdict, but the prosecution asked for a
trial anyway\]

**}**

Afspil video fra 22:55: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bKQmJNUokb8>

Stop ved 28:07

Kommenter talen, med de noter jeg har lavet, på denne side. Hvis det er
forfærdeligt, skyder i bare skylden på mig:)

Court : Mr. Gandhi, do you wish to make any statement on the question of
sentence?\
[Gandhiji]{.ul} : I would like to make a statement.\
Court : Could you give me in writing to put it on record?\
Gandhiji : I shall give it as soon as I finish it.\
\[Gandhiji then made the following oral statement followed by a written
statement that he read.\]\
Before I read this statement I would like to state that I entirely
endorse the learned Advocate-General's remarks in connection with my
humble self. I think that he has made, because it is very true and I
have no desire whatsoever to conceal from this court the fact that to
preach disaffection towards the existing system of Government has become
almost a passion with me, and the Advocate-General is entirely in the
right when he says that my preaching of disaffection did not commence
with my connection with Young India but that it commenced much earlier,
and in the statement that I am about to read, it will be my painful duty
to admit before this court that it commenced much earlier than the
period stated by the Advocate-General. It is a painful duty with me but
I have to discharge that duty knowing the responsibility that rests upon
my shoulders, and I wish to endorse all the blame that the learned
Advocate-General has thrown on my shoulders in connection with the
Bombay occurrences, Madras occurrences and the Chauri Chuara
occurrences. Thinking over these things deeply and sleeping over them
night after night, it is impossible for me to dissociate myself from the
diabolical crimes of Chauri Chaura or the mad outrages of Bombay. He is
quite right when he says, that as a man of responsibility, a man having
received a fair share of education, having had a fair share of
experience of this world, I should have known the consequences of every
one of my acts. I know them. I knew that I was playing with fire. I ran
the risk and if I was set free I would still do the same. I have felt it
this morning that I would have failed in my duty, if I did not say what
I said here just now.\
I wanted to avoid violence. Non-violence is the first article of my
faith. It is also the last article of my creed. But I had to make my
choice. I had either to submit to a system which I considered had done
an irreparable harm to my country, or incur the risk of the mad fury of
my people bursting forth when they understood the truth from my lips. I
know that my people have sometimes gone mad. I am deeply sorry for it
and I am, therefore, here to submit not to a light penalty but to the
highest penalty. I do not ask for mercy. I do not plead any extenating
act. I am here, therefore, to invite and cheerfully submit to the
highest penalty that can be inflicted upon me for what in law is a
deliberate crime, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a
citizen. The only course open to you, the Judge, is, as I am going to
say in my statement, either to resign your post, or inflict on me the
severest penalty if you believe that the system and law you are
assisting to administer are good for the people. I do not except that
kind of conversion. But by the time I have finished with my statement
you will have a glimpse of what is raging within my breast to run this
maddest risk which a sane man can run.

**Intro:**

\[He then read out the written statement : \] I owe it perhaps to the
Indian public and to the public in England, to placate which this
prosecution is mainly taken up, that I should explain why from a staunch
loyalist and co-operator, I have become an uncompromising
disaffectionist and non-co-operator. To the court too I should say why I
plead guilty to the charge of promoting disaffection towards the
Government established by law in India.

My public life began in 1893 in South Africa in troubled weather. My
first contact with British authority in that country was not of a happy
character. I discovered that as a man and an Indian, I had no rights.
More correctly I discovered that I had no rights as a man because I was
an Indian.\
But I was not baffled. I thought that this treatment of Indians was an
excrescence upon a system that was intrinsically and **mainly good.** I
gave the Government my voluntary and hearty co-operation, criticizing it
freely where I felt it was faulty but **never wishing its
destruction**.\
Consequently when the existence of the Empire was threatened in 1899 by
the Boer challenge, I offered my services to it, **raised a volunteer
ambulance corps** and served at several actions that took place for the
relief of Ladysmith. Similarly in 1906, at the time of the Zulu
'revolt', I raised a stretcher bearer party and served till the end of
the 'rebellion'. On both the occasions I received medals and was even
mentioned in dispatches. For my work in South Africa I was given by Lord
Hardinge a Kaisar-i-Hind gold medal. When the war broke out in 1914
between England and Germany, I raised a volunteer ambulance cars in
London, consisting of the then resident Indians in London, chiefly
students. Its work was acknowledged by the authorities to be valuable.
Lastly, in India when a special appeal was made at the war Conference in
Delhi in 1918 by Lord Chelmsford for recruits, I struggled at the cost
of my health to raise a corps in Kheda, and the response was being made
when the hostilities ceased and orders were received that no more
recruits were wanted. In all these efforts at service, I was actuated by
the belief that it was possible by such services to gain a status of
full equality in the Empire for my countrymen.

\[he goes on to tell about all the ways the state has robbed Indians of
their freedom\]

**Ending notes on the speech:**

This is a speech with an overwhelming focus on ethos. Everything Gandhi
is saying, is in the name of truth and freedom, which makes him
extremely convincing.

Gandhi ended up with a sentence of 6 years, but was released for medical
reasons two years later.
