**Ethos, Pathos, and Logos Definition and
Examples**(https://pathosethoslogos.com/)

**Ethos, Pathos, and Logos are modes of persuasion used to convince
audiences.  They are also referred to as the three artistic proofs
(Aristotle coined the terms), and are all represented by Greek words. **

**Ethos**(https://pathosethoslogos.com/ethos) or the ethical appeal,
means to convince an audience of the author's credibility or character.

An author would use ethos to show to his audience that he is a credible
source and is worth listening to. Ethos is the Greek word for
"character." The word "ethic" is derived from ethos.



Ethos can be developed by choosing language that is appropriate for the
audience and topic (this also means choosing the proper level of
vocabulary), making yourself sound fair or unbiased, introducing your
expertise, accomplishments or pedigree, and by using correct grammar and
syntax.

During public speaking events, typically a speaker will have at least
some of his pedigree and accomplishments listed upon introduction by a
master of ceremony.

**Pathos** or the emotional appeal, means to persuade an audience by
appealing to their emotions.

Authors use pathos to invoke sympathy from an audience; to make the
audience feel what what the author wants them to feel. A common use of
pathos would be to draw pity from an audience. Another use of pathos
would be to inspire anger from an audience, perhaps in order to prompt
action. Pathos is the Greek word for both "suffering" and "experience."
The words empathy and pathetic  are derived from pathos.



Pathos can be developed by using meaningful language, emotional tone,
emotion evoking examples, stories of emotional events, and implied
meanings. 

**Logos** or the appeal to logic,
means to convince an audience by use of logic or reason.

To use logos would be to cite facts and statistics, historical and
literal analogies, and citing certain authorities on a subject. Logos is
the Greek word for "word," however the true definition goes beyond that,
and can be most closely described as "the word or that by which the
inward thought is expressed\" and, \"the inward thought itself\"
(1(http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus:text:1999.04.0058:entry%3Dlo/gos)).
The word "logic" is derived from logos.

*der var et billede her engang*
height="2.0833333333333335in"}

Logos can be developed by using advanced, theoretical or abstract
language, citing facts (very important), using historical and literal
analogies, and by constructing logical arguments.

**In order to persuade your audience, proper use of Ethos, Pathos, and
Logos is necessary.**

Examples of Ethos, Logos and Pathos:

Example of Ethos: 

"Woz and I started Apple in my parents garage when I was 20. We worked
hard, and in 10 years Apple had grown from just the two of us in a
garage into a \$2 billion company with over 4000 employees. We had just
released our finest creation --- the Macintosh --- a year earlier, and I
had just turned 30\...

During the next five years, I started a company named NeXT, another
company named Pixar, and fell in love with an amazing woman who would
become my wife. Pixar went on to create the worlds first computer
animated feature film, Toy Story, and is now the most successful
animation studio in the world. In a remarkable turn of events, Apple
bought NeXT, I returned to Apple, and the technology we developed at
NeXT is at the heart of Apple\'s current renaissance. And Laurene and I
have a wonderful family together."

Stanford Commencement Speech by Steve Jobs. June 12, 2005.

Example of Pathos:

\"I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials
and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail cells.
And some of you have come from areas where your quest \-- quest for
freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered by
the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative
suffering. Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is
redemptive. Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South
Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums
and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation
can and will be changed.\"

I Have a Dream by Martin Luther King Jr. August 28th, 1963.

Example of Logos:

\"However, although private final demand, output, and employment have
indeed been growing for more than a year, the pace of that growth
recently appears somewhat less vigorous than we expected. Notably, since
stabilizing in mid-2009, real household spending in the United States
has grown in the range of 1 to 2 percent at annual rates, a relatively
modest pace. Households\' caution is understandable. Importantly, the
painfully slow recovery in the labor market has restrained growth in
labor income, raised uncertainty about job security and prospects, and
damped confidence. Also, although consumer credit shows some signs of
thawing, responses to our Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank
Lending Practices suggest that lending standards to households generally
remain tight.\"

The Economic Outlook and Monetary Policy by Ben Bernanke. August 27th,
2010.
